I’ll inspect the local specification, current implementation, and supplied tests, then implement an exact solver and stress it against brute force on small random instances before running the full suite.

The default shell launcher is unavailable in this sandbox, so I’m switching to the installed Windows PowerShell executable and continuing within the workspace.

The key design is a branch-and-bound search over dependency-closed selections. It propagates exclusions through reverse dependencies, uses exact fractional-knapsack, conflict-clique, and maximum-closure upper bounds, and separates the value/cost optimum from the final ID tie-break so equal-quality families do not force exhaustive enumeration.

The supplied tests pass. I’m now cross-checking exactness—including transitive dependencies, asymmetric exclusions, negative values, multidimensional cost ties, and tuple-order ties—against exhaustive enumeration on hundreds of deterministic random small instances.

The exhaustive cross-check matched all 1,000 cases. Initial 32-project timing probes are well below the limit (roughly 0.01–0.5 seconds), and I’m probing more adversarial multidimensional and conflict-heavy shapes now to catch weak bounds or pathological tie behavior.

The adversarial probes also stay comfortably under the limit: the worst of 170 varied 32-project fixtures was under one second here. I’m cleaning the temporary stress harness, adding a compact permanent regression set for validation and unusual lexicographic ties, then I’ll rerun the full suite and syntax checks.

Two new regression expectations were malformed—the supposedly competing portfolios could actually be combined. I’ve corrected those fixtures (by making the alternatives mutually exclusive); the implementation behavior was consistent with the contract.

A deliberately hard subset-sum family exposed the expected branch-and-bound worst case—the batch is taking too long. I’m using that result to add a meet-in-the-middle path for interaction-free portfolios, which caps the main scale case near /(2^{n/2}/) rather than relying on pruning.

The hard subset-sum path is now bounded by meet-in-the-middle; the long-running command is a 150-fixture batch rather than one fixture. Individual solves are completing, but I’m measuring the batch total and will optimize allocation overhead if the per-instance figure is too close to the limit.

The meet-in-the-middle path now matches brute force on 500 additional independent cases (including required IDs and shuffled input). Hard 32-item subset-sum instances take about 0.5 seconds; random 3D instances take roughly 2.5–2.9 seconds, still comfortably below the fixture limit.

The independent fast path also matches exhaustive enumeration on another 1,000 mixed-sign, 1–3 dimensional cases. I’m doing one final structured fuzz pass now, particularly for instances that simplify into an independent residual after required dependencies are propagated.

The final structured fuzz pass matched exhaustive search on 2,000 more cases. I also hardened the tie-break phase so that once propagation removes the last interaction, it finishes the residual portfolio with one exact meet-in-the-middle solve instead of repeated feasibility searches.

Implemented the exact optimizer in [optimizer.py](<benchmark>/Sol-Complex-Tasks-20261002/workspaces/05-optimizer-5.6-sol-max-r1/optimizer.py).

- Uses dependency-closure bitmasks and symmetric conflict propagation.
- Exact branch-and-bound with admissible knapsack, conflict-clique, and maximum-closure bounds.
- Uses meet-in-the-middle for interaction-free 32-project cases.
- Preserves all three tie-breaking objectives exactly.
- Worst-case complexity remains exponential, as expected for NP-hard instances; independent cases are approximately /(O(2^{n/2}/operatorname{poly}(n))/).

Added contract regressions in [test_contract_extra.py](<benchmark>/Sol-Complex-Tasks-20261002/workspaces/05-optimizer-5.6-sol-max-r1/tests/test_contract_extra.py).

Verification:

```text
Ran 10 tests in 0.002s
OK
```

The implementation was also cross-checked against exhaustive enumeration on several thousand randomized small instances.